A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant
Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions
CHARLOTTE, NC – Erica, the most widely adopted AI-driven virtual financial assistant, is a central gateway to serving clients –
assisting nearly 50 million users since launch, surpassing 3 billion client interactions, and now averaging more than 58 million
interactions per month. Launched in 2018, Erica is deepening relationships with clients and driving greater efficiencies throughout
Bank of America.
“Erica has been learning from our clients for many years, enabling us to leverage AI today at scale, globally,” said Hari
Gopalkrishnan, chief technology and information officer at Bank of America. “Our early and ongoing investments in AI
demonstrate our commitment to delivering innovative experiences and value to clients.”
Clients have received and interacted with more than 1.7 billion proactive, personalized insights delivered by Erica. Some recent
examples of how Erica is helping clients stay on top of their finances include:
Highlighting BankAmeriDeals cash back deals for clients based on their spending.
Alerting clients which way their balances are trending in the next 7 days.
Notifying clients of their eligibility for Preferred Rewards, increasing the value of their relationship with the bank.
Providing guidance on nearly 50 investment-related topics, allowing Merrill clients to engage with Erica when managing their
banking, investment and retirement relationships.
Scheduling an appointment via Erica, creating a seamless handoff to high-touch service channels.
“Our clients appreciate Erica’s ability to help them manage their spending, improve budgeting and increase savings,” said Nikki
Katz, head of digital at Bank of America. “Erica is the bedrock upon which we’ve built an unmatched high-tech, high touch client
experience.”
Clients have spent more than 18.7 million hours conversing with Erica. More than 98% of users find the information they need,
significantly decreasing call center volume and allowing financial specialists to spend time focusing on more complex financial
conversations with clients.
12/10/25, 10:43 PM A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions | Press Releases | Newsroom | Bank of America
https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2025/08/a-decade-of-ai-innovation--bofa-s-virtual-assistant-erica-surpas.html 1/5
Bank of America’s data scientists have trained Erica to recognize and respond to millions of client questions using a library of more
than 700 responses. The system has undergone over 75,000 updates since launch to continuously improve the client experience. Over
the next year the bank will expand Erica’s abilities further to offer more personalized insights to help clients know more about their
finances.
At Bank of America, AI capabilities are designed to be scalable and reusable across different areas. Erica is embedded today across
the enterprise, assisting clients and employees and driving efficiencies in several areas, including within Merrill, Benefits OnLine,
CashPro®, and others. For example:
ask MERRILL® and ask PRIVATE BANK® help wealth management teams efficiently curate information to deliver superior
client experiences. With approximately 23 million interactions per year, these tools are also helping advisors and other
employees more proactively connect with clients about timely and relevant opportunities.
CashPro® Chat, the virtual service advisor for the CashPro platform, helps business, commercial and corporate clients quickly
view transactions, find information about accounts, and more. CashPro Chat is used by 65% of clients, with Erica handling
greater than 40% of client interactions.
Erica for Employees is used today by over 90% of Bank of America employees, with the virtual assistant having reduced calls
into the IT service desk by 50%. The capabilities will expand this year to offer enhanced search and assistance across a broader
set of topics – including answers to employee questions about Bank of America products and services.
Bank of America’s approach to AI and proven use cases have earned the company several industry accolades. Most recently, the
company was named the top U.S. consumer bank for use of AI by Global Finance magazine through its inaugural “AI in Finance”
awards. Global Finance also named Erica the best chatbot/virtual assistant in the U.S. and North America.
Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world’s leading financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle-market
businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management
products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 69 million
consumer and small business clients with approximately 3,700 retail financial centers, approximately 15,000 ATMs (automated teller
machines) and award-winning digital banking with approximately 59 million verified digital users. Bank of America is a global
leader in wealth management, corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes, serving
corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to
approximately 4 million small business households through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The
company serves clients through operations across the United States, its territories and more than 35 countries. Bank of America
Corporation stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BAC).
Reporters may contact
Andy Aldridge, Bank of America
Phone: 1.980.387.0514
andrew.aldridge@bofa.com
Categories
Consumer Bank
Digital and Technology
12/10/25, 10:43 PM A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions | Press Releases | Newsroom | Bank of America
https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2025/08/a-decade-of-ai-innovation--bofa-s-virtual-assistant-erica-surpas.html 2/5
What would you like the power to do?
Get Bank of America news updates, including dividend announcements and other
important information to your inbox.
Subscribe
Tell us about your experience
Contact Us
Help Center
Banking
Contact Us
Location finder
Help
Our company
Responsible growth
Business practices
What we offer
Modern Slavery Act Statement (PDF)
Making an impact
Local Impact
Sustainable finance
Supporting economic opportunity
Environmental sustainability
Find resources
Working here
12/10/25, 10:43 PM A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions | Press Releases | Newsroom | Bank of America
https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2025/08/a-decade-of-ai-innovation--bofa-s-virtual-assistant-erica-surpas.html 3/5
Explore Careers
Investors
Profile
Quarterly earnings
Events & presentations
Regulatory & other filings
Fixed income
Shareholder info
Annual reports & proxy
Governance
Sustainability Reports
Newsroom
Press releases
Executive biographies
Journalist resources
Awards & recognition
Investing in securities involves risks, and there is always the potential of losing money when you invest in securities.
This material does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial situations or needs and is not intended as a recommendation, offer or solicitation for the
purchase or sale of any security, financial instrument, or strategy. Before acting on any information in this material, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular
circumstances and, if necessary, seek professional advice. Any opinions expressed herein are given in good faith, are subject to change without notice, and are only correct as of the
stated date of their issue.
Content contained herein may have been produced by an outside party that is not affiliated with Bank of America or any of its affiliates (Bank of America). Opinions or ideas
expressed are not necessarily those of Bank of America nor do they reflect their views or endorsement. These materials are for informational purposes only. Bank of America does
not assume liability for any loss or damage resulting from anyone's reliance on the information provided. Certain links may direct you away from Bank of America to an unaffiliated
site. Bank of America has not been involved in the preparation of the content supplied at the unaffiliated sites and does not guarantee or assume any responsibility for its content.
When you visit these sites, you are agreeing to all of their terms of use, including their privacy and security policies.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (also referred to as “ MLPF&S” or “Merrill”) makes available certain investment products sponsored, managed, distributed or
provided by companies that are affiliates of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). MLPF&S is a registered broker-dealer, registered investment adviser, Member SIPC
 (Securities Investor Protection Corporation) and a wholly owned subsidiary of BofA Corp.
Trust and fiduciary services are provided by Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). Insurance and
annuity products are offered through Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (“MLLA”), a licensed insurance agency and wholly-owned subsidiary of BofA Corp.
Investment products offered through MLPF&S and insurance and annuity products offered through MLLA.
12/10/25, 10:43 PM A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions | Press Releases | Newsroom | Bank of America
https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2025/08/a-decade-of-ai-innovation--bofa-s-virtual-assistant-erica-surpas.html 4/5
Are Not FDIC Insured Are Not Bank Guaranteed May Lose Value
Are Not Deposits Are Not Insured by Any Governmental Agency Are Not a Condition to Any Banking Service or Activity
Bank of America Private Bank is a division of Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC and a wholly owned subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation (BofA Corp.).
"Bank of America" is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets business of Bank of America Corporation. Lending, derivatives, and other commercial banking
activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other
investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation ("Investment Banking Affiliates"), including, in the United
States, BofA Securities, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, both of which are registered broker-dealers and Members of SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, by
locally registered entities. BofA Securities, Inc. is registered as a futures commission merchant with the CFTC and is a member of the NFA.
Mobile Banking requires that you download the Mobile Banking app and is only available for select mobile devices. Message and data rates may apply.
Fees apply to wires and certain transfers. See the Online Banking Service Agreement for details. Data connection required. Carrier fees may apply.
Company goals are aspirational and not guarantees or promises that all goals will be met. Statistics and metrics included in our sustainability reports are estimates and may be
based on assumptions or developing standards.
Locations Contact us Help Accessible Banking Careers Privacy Security Social community guidelines Sitemap Advertising Practices
Your Privacy Choices
Bank of America, N.A. Member FDIC. Equal Housing Lender
© 2025 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved.
Connect with us
12/10/25, 10:43 PM A Decade of AI Innovation: BofA’s Virtual Assistant Erica Surpasses 3 Billion Client Interactions | Press Releases | Newsroom | Bank of America
https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2025/08/a-decade-of-ai-innovation--bofa-s-virtual-assistant-erica-surpas.html 5/5